Soft Skills Questions 2
1. Why Are You Interested In This Role?
My love for coding has grown over the years and I have gained enough skills to solve even complex issues in the industry. I believe that working in your company will also give me more challenges to become better in this industry.”

2. What are The Roles of a Junior (intern) Web Developer in your company?

A junior developer supports other developers and engineers on complex projects. Other roles include:
•	Testing program and debugging all web applications.
•	Designing, developing, testing, and deploying web applications
•	Coordinating with other designers and programmers to develop web projects
•	Fixing bugs, troubleshooting, and resolving problems
•	Developing appropriate code structures to solve specific tasks
•	Supporting and assisting in the upkeeping and maintaining websites
•	In case a system fails, they initiate periodic testing as well as implementing contingency plans.
•	Uploading sites onto the server and registering them with different search engines
•	Assuming ownership of code throughout staging, development, testing, and production.”
3. What are the Qualities That a Junior Web Developer Needs to Be Successful?
“A skillful junior web developer needs to be a team player and passionate about knowledge. He should also possess strong problem solving, debugging, organizational, and communication skills.”
4. What Major Challenges Did You Face During Your Last Role? How Did You Manage Them?
My company used Style Component and Material UI for designing their project. But I didn’t have any idea about these tools. I read some documentation and my team members’ codes. After I watched one summary. I learned the parts I need.
5. Describe Your Daily Routine As A Junior (intern) Web Developer?
I begin my day checking emails and teams messages. Then I begin coding my task. I join big daily because I’d like to learn about project deeply. All developers join this daily. I join our training session for our mentors or senior. This session we share and solve our problems and Mentors explain some important tricks or info. Last I join my Front End Team daily and I report my task.
6. How Do You Stay Motivated In Your Work?
New challenges motivate me. I take pleasure in solving problems in my tasks. I’ve started this job from scratch and I'd like to succeed. This is my big motivating reason.
7. Are You Familiar With Continuous Integration? Why Is It Important During Development?
“Continuous integration specifically needs code integration into repositories that are shared many times every day in a project. Continuous integration is important because it verifies each code integration that comes about during early detections of runtime bugs, errors, and other potential problems in development.”
Bu soruda CI/CD kismini arastir ve yaz.



8. Tell me several ways of how you can reduce page load time.
“Some of the ways you can reduce the page load time include reducing the image size, removing unnecessary widgets, reducing lookups, minimizing redirects, caching, HTTP compression, and placing the script at the bottom/ external files or placing CSS at the top.”
9. What do you think a front end developer's role is in a team?

"Front end developers work closely with back end developers to create a visually appealing, cohesive website. They ensure a website looks good but also functions properly by utilizing their team's code. Front end developers should have an in-depth understanding of coding languages and design aspects to create a well-balanced website."
10. How do you stay up-to-date with industry trends and techniques?

I keep updated with industry trends, news, and techniques by reading industry magazines. Some of my favourite web design magazines are Creative Bloq and Smashing Magazine. I also enjoy web development magazines, such as Noupe Magazine and Sprye Studios. I read an article or two a day
2. “I am always looking for ways to improve my skills as a web developer. I regularly attend online webinars and subscribe to newsletters from companies like Adobe, Microsoft and Google where they share tips and tricks on their products. I also take coding courses through Udemy and Code Academy to expand my knowledge of different programming languages.”

11. How do you limit errors in your work?
To limit errors in my work, I double and triple check everything in my code to make sure it's clean and functional. I test the code as well by launching the website on different browsers and platforms to ensure there are no functional errors. This allows me to check if I dislike any of the design aspects as well."

12. What are some of the programming languages you’ve worked with in the past?
I have worked extensively with HTML, CSS and JavaScript, as well as React, Styled Component and MUI. I am always looking for new ways to improve my programming abilities, so I have also dabbled in Python, MySQL and MongoDB.

13. If hired, what would be your primary focus as a junior web developer for our company?
First of all I’d try to understand coding pattern your company. After that I looked my new team members codes and I implement my codes in these pattern.

14. We want to improve our website’s search engine optimization. What would you do to improve our SEO?
“I would first make sure that all pages are optimized for mobile devices. I would also ensure that each page has unique content and is not duplicated on other pages. I would use keywords throughout the text and title tags so that the website appears higher in search results. Finally, I would add social media sharing buttons to each page so users can easily share our content online.”

15. What makes you a good fit for our company?
“I think I would be a great fit for your company because I am passionate about creating beautiful websites that are easy to use. Your website is very user-friendly, which is something I strive for in my own projects. Another reason I think I would be a good fit is because I know …



